1) When athletes begin to exercise, their heart rates and respiration rates increase. At what level of organization does the human body coordinate these functions?
A. at the tissue level	
B. at the organ level	
C. at the system level
D. at the cellular level	
2) Fossil evidence can be used to tell us about all of these EXCEPT __________
A. biological diversity (the kinds of organisms that lived)
B. episodic speciation (new species suddenly appearing after millions of years)
C. mass extinction (sudden disappearance of all evidence of an organism)
D. mutation rate (how fast mutations occur within a species)
3) When two nuclei are combined into one nucleus, there is a slight change in mass and the release of a large amount of energy. What is this process called?
A. Conversion	
B. Reaction	
C. Fission	
D. Fusion
4) Which is the key distinction between an epidemic and a pandemic disease outbreak?
A. the symptoms of the disease	
B. the geographical area affected	
C. the species of organisms infected	
D. the season in which the disease spreads
5) The flower petals of a hydrangea plant change color as the acidity of the soil changes. The color changes are directly related to which factor?
A. gravitropism
B. photosynthesis
C. geographic location
D. environmental conditions
6) A teacher builds a model of a hydrogen atom. A red golf ball is used for a proton, and a green golf ball is used for an electron. Which is not accurate concerning the model?
A. number of particles	
B. relative mass of particles	
C. types of particles present	
D. charges of particles present
7) Which substance should a student apply to the skin if he or she gets splashed with an acid?
A. water	
B. vinegar	
C. salt	
D. formaldehyde
8) What is the main source of energy to propels water cycle in earth?
A. The sun	
B. Fossil fuels	
C. Clouds
D. The ocean
9) Which has the greatest effect on aiding the movement of blood through the human body?
A. Tension	
B. Friction	
C. Density	
D. Gravity
10) Over time, non-volcanic mountains can form due to the interaction of plate boundaries. Which interaction is most likely associated with the formation of non-volcanic mountains?
A. oceanic plates colliding with oceanic plates	
B. oceanic plates separating from oceanic plates	
C. continental plates colliding with continental plates	
D. continental plates separating from continental plates
11) Clearing forests of trees and vegetation for human development can have major impacts on the ecosystem. Which would most likely occur after a forested area is cleared?
A. An increase in habitat for wildlife
B. A decrease in food competition
C. An increase in soil erosion
D. A decrease in water runoff
12) Which is the best explanation to describe the term ecology?		
A. the study of the nonliving parts of the environment	
B. the study of the living parts of the environment	
C. the study of the protection and renewal of natural resources	
D. the study of organisms and their interactions with the environment
13) Which statement correctly describes chemical reactants?
A. they are the substances that are formed during a chemical change
B. they are the substances that are present before a chemical change takes place
C. it is the symbol that separates the substances present before and after the chemical change	
D. they are the substances that are written on the right hand side of the chemical reaction equation
14) Researchers work in teams to make cars more fuel efficient. Which of these statements describes the main advantage of working in teams rather than working individually?	
A. research is more likely to be published	
B. research costs less to perform
C. researchers can share their ideas
D. researchers have more time to complete work
15) Achromatopsia is a genetic disorder in which sufferers have no color vision. Achromatopsia MOST likely affects which of the following structures in the eye?
A. rod cells	
B. cone cells	
C. lens	
D. iris
16) Which of these elements is likely to be found in an organic compound?	
A. helium	
B. hydrogen	
C. mercury	
D. tin
17) Blood pressure is often used as an indicator of cardiovascular health.  Blood pressure is MOST often measured in which of the following units?	
A. cmHg
B. mmHg
C. g/cm^3
D. g/mm^3
18) Modern technology has had some positive and negative effects on society. Which would be a negative effect of advances in technology?		
A. Human jobs replaced by more efficient machines	
B. Decrease in production of solid waste
C. Use of alternate sources of energy
D. Reduction in habitat destruction
19) Robots can perform tasks that are dangerous for humans. What is the MAJOR limitation to the use of robots?
A. the assembly pieces must be very small.	
B. the assembly process must remain exactly the same.	
C. robots require regular maintenance.	
D. robots must be provided with electricity.
20) A student investigated the percentage of energy obtained from several food sources for a population of eagles. Which format is the best way to display this data?
A. A table
B. A pie chart
C. A bar graph
D. A line graph
21) The Voyager II space probe was launched in 1979 with the mission of flying past the outer gas giant planets and collecting data.  What unit of measurement would BEST describe the distance that this probe traveled to reach Neptune?
A. meters	
B. kilometers	
C. astronomical units	
D. light years
22) Which  is the cellular structure that allows nutrients to pass into cells?
A. Mitochondrion	
B. Nucleus	
C. Cell membrane	
D. Chloroplast
23) Which behavior that can help animals establish a territory?
A. A caribou herd migrates seasonally
B. A scent trail leads ants to a food source
C. A wolf pack howls to warn other wolves to stay away	
D. A honeybee society divides the work between its members
24) The brain, spinal cord, and nerves are organs that perform which primary function?
A. supporting the body and enabling it to move	
B. transporting oxygen, wastes, and nutrients throughout the body	
C. producing male and female gametes	
D. conducting messages to coordinate body functions
25) Which statement best describes a liquid sample?
A. It will retain its volume if transferred to a larger container	
B. It keeps its shape when transferred to a larger container
C. Its volume can be greatly reduced by adding pressure
D. Its shape can be changed by increasing its temperature
26) A condition in bees called "colony collapse disorder" occurs when worker bees leave the hive to collect nectar and never return. How would a decline in the bee population most likely affect a farm ecosystem?
A. There would be a decrease in soil thickness
B. There would be a decline in fruit production
C. There would be an increase in plant diseases
D. There would be an increase in insect pest populations.
27) When light passes through the lens of your eye, it produces __________ image on the retina.
A. a smaller	
B. a larger	
C. an upright
D. an inverse
28) How should researchers share their findings with other scientists to validate their study of the effectiveness of a new medication?
A. e-mail the research results to local newspapers	
B. publish the research results in a scientific journal	
C. publish the results in brochures for doctors	
D. discuss the research results on the Internet
29) Some ancient Greeks tried to discover the laws of the universe through thought and logic. Which part of the scientific process were these scientists missing?
A. analysis	
B. experiment	
C. conclusion	
D. observation
30) Which of these practices would best support a claim that an experiment led to a scientific discovery?
A. reporting and sharing data with other researchers
B. having other scientists successfully replicate the experiment's results
C. keeping complete, detailed, and accurate records of the experiment
D. being willing to publish the results of the experiment for other scientist
31) What is the greatest contributor to air pollution in the United States?
A. Factories	
B. Automobiles	
C. Power plants	
D. Burning waste
32) Why is the Ozone content of the stratosphere is very important to living organisms in the earth?
A. Ozone absorbs infrared radiation from the Sun
B. Ozone absorbs ultraviolet radiation from the Sun
C. Ozone is necessary to create oxygen for living things
D. Ozone in the atmosphere prevents radiation of heat from Earth
33) An ecosystem is a community of organisms interacting with their physical environment. Why are decomposers an important part of ecosystems?
A. they break down dead organisms to return nutrients to the soil	
B. they produce their own food for survival
C. they play a role in preventing weathering and erosion
D. they provide most of the energy to consumers
34) Populations respond, over time, to changing environments through the process of __________.
A. adaptation	
B. competition	
C. ecological succession	
D. extinction
35) Which type of organism is at the lowest level of the food chain?		
A. Autotroph	
B. Heterotroph	
C. Carnivore	
D. Omnivore
36) A research team wanted to produce a smaller variety of German shepherd dogs. They mated the smallest dogs from different litters for several generations. This is an example of which concept?
A. extinction	
B. mutation	
C. selective breeding	
D. natural selection
37) As a glacier melts and retreats, a layer of bedrock is exposed. Which term best describes the process that establishes a community on the bedrock?
A. disturbance	
B. succession	
C. weathering	
D. stabilization
38) Some areas of the world are experiencing more desert-like conditions. This change most favors survival of species with the ability to do which of the following?
A. consume large amounts of food	
B. become dormant for long periods	
C. sense infrared and ultraviolet light	
D. transpire water through the skin to the atmosphere
39) Many birds living in a certain coastal environment have a high-level concentration of pesticides in their bodies. What is the most likely conclusion that can be made about the pesticides?
A. The pesticides exist naturally in the environment
B. Plants picked up the pesticides from the coastal soils
C. High ocean tides brought the pesticides into the nesting areas
D. The fish consumed by the birds are contaminated with pesticides
40)What is the main function of the circulatory system to human being?
A. secrete enzymes
B. digest proteins	
C. produce hormones	
D. transport materials
41) With climate and the transfer of energy as heat, which three mechanisms that transfer energy between Earth's surface and the atmosphere?	
A. conduction, convection, radiation	
B. reflection, retention, radiation	
C. convection, nuclear, reflection	
D. conduction, solar, nuclear
42) A scientist searches for fossils in sedimentary rocks. Which statement best explains why the scientist is more likely to find fossils in sedimentary rocks than in other rock types?
A. A mold can form when an organism is buried in sediment
B. Most organisms live in areas where sedimentary rocks are found
C. Other rock types are difficult to examine compared to sedimentary rocks
D. Sedimentary rocks are the most common rock type on Earth
43) Which statement is the best to describes the nature of sound?	
A. Sound travels fastest in air
B. Sound travels faster than light
C. Sound travels as longitudinal waves	
D. Sound travels as transverse waves
44) A gastroenterologist is a doctor who treats problems of the esophagus, stomach, and intestines. Which organ system is cared for by this type of doctor?
A. circulatory system
B. muscular system
C. digestive system
D. nervous system
45) Many wildflowers growing on the floor of dense forests bloom in the early spring. Which of these is the best reason why they bloom at this time?
A. The canopy trees have not developed their leaves so wildflowers get more light
B. The butterflies that pollinate the flowers are most active in early spring
C. There are fewer animals to eat the flowers before they are pollinated
D. Early spring is the warmest time of the year so wildflowers grow easily
46) Which of the following remains constant in Earth's carbon cycle?
A. The total mass of available carbon	
B. the way organisms use carbon	
C. the physical state of carbon-containing molecules	
D. the molecule in which a particular carbon atom is found
47) When the core of a protostar has reached around 10 million K, the pressure within it is so immense that nuclear fusion of hydrogen begins and a __________ is born.
A. red giant	
B. star	
C. super red giant
D. black hole
48) A family owns a vacation cabin located on a hillside below a gas station with a leaking gasoline storage tank. In which situation is the drinking water for the cabin most likely to be contaminated?
A. water is pumped to the cabin from a distant reservoir
B. the family brings several gallons of bottled spring water	
C. groundwater is drawn up in buckets from a private well
D. the family collects water in rain barrels left in the open air
49) A scientist working on a new package design wants to use a material that is highly recyclable, biodegradable, and inexpensive. The best material for the package design is
A. aluminum
B. cardboard
C. plastic
D. glass
50) Inside cells, special molecules carry messages from the membrane to the nucleus. Which body system uses a similar process?
A. endocrine system
B. lymphatic system
C. excretory system
D. integumentary system
The question End
A
B
C
D

