When athletes begin to exercise, their heart rates and respiration rates increase. These functions are coordinate by human body at the system level of organization
Fossil evidence can be used to tell us about all of these EXCEPT mutation rate (how fast mutations occur within a species)
When two nuclei are combined into one nucleus, there is a slight change in mass and the release of a large amount of energy. This process is called Fusion
The geographical area affected is the key distinction between an epidemic and a pandemic disease outbreak
The flower petals of a hydrangea plant change color as the acidity of the soil changes. The color changes are directly related to environmental conditions
A teacher builds a model of a hydrogen atom. A red golf ball is used for a proton, and a green golf ball is used for an electron. Relative mass of particles is not accurate concerning the model
The substance that a student should apply to the skin if he or she gets splashed with an acid is water
The sun is is the main source of energy that propels the water cycle in earth
Gravity has the greatest effect on aiding the movement of blood through the human body
Over time, non-volcanic mountains can form due to the interaction of plate boundaries. continental plates colliding with continental plate interaction is most likely associated with the formation of non-volcanic mountains
Clearing forests of trees and vegetation for human development can have major impacts on the ecosystem. An increase in soil erosion would most likely occur after a forested area is cleared
The study of organisms and their interactions with the environment is the best explanation to describe the term ecology
A statement correctly describes chemical reactants is they are the substances that are present before a chemical change takes place
Researchers work in teams to make cars more fuel efficient. The main advantage of working in teams rather than working individually is researchers can share their ideas
Achromatopsia is a genetic disorder in which sufferers have no color vision. Achromatopsia MOST likely affects cone cells structures in the eye
The elements Which is likely to be found in an organic compound is hydrogen
Blood pressure is often used as an indicator of cardiovascular health.  Blood pressure is MOST often measured in mmHg
Modern technology has had some positive and negative effects on society. Human jobs replaced by more efficient machines would be a negative effect of advances in technology?
Robots can perform tasks that are dangerous for humans. However, the assembly process must remain exactly the same is the MAJOR limitation to the use of robots
A student investigated the percentage of energy obtained from several food sources for a population of eagles. A pie chart is the best way to display this data
The Voyager II space probe was launched in 1979 with the mission of flying past the outer gas giant planets and collecting data. The unit of measurement would BEST describe the distance that this probe traveled to reach Neptune is astronomical units
Cell membrane is cellular structure that allows nutrients to pass into cells
A wolf pack howls to warn other wolves to stay away is behavior that can help animals establish a territory
The brain, spinal cord, and nerves are organs that perform primary function of conducting messages to coordinate body functions
It will retain its volume if transferred to a larger container is statement best describes a liquid sample
A condition in bees called "colony collapse disorder" occurs when worker bees leave the hive to collect nectar and never return. A decline in the bee population most likely affect a farm ecosystem to decline in fruit production
When light passes through the lens of your eye, it produces an inverse image on the retina
Researchers should share their findings with other scientists by publishing the research results in a scientific journal to validate their study of the effectiveness of a new medication
Having other scientists successfully replicate the experiment's results would best support a claim that an experiment led to a scientific discovery
Some ancient Greeks tried to discover the laws of the universe through thought and logic. The part of the scientific process were these scientists missing is experiment
Automobiles is the greatest contributor to air pollution in the United States
Ozone content of the stratosphere is very important to living organisms in the earth because it absorbs ultraviolet radiation from the Sun
An ecosystem is a community of organisms interacting with their physical environment. decomposers is important part of ecosystems because they break down dead organisms to return nutrients to the soil
Populations respond, over time, to changing environments through the process of adaption
Autotroph type of organism is at the lowest level of the food chain
A research team wanted to produce a smaller variety of German shepherd dogs. They mated the smallest dogs from different litters for several generations. This is an example of which concept of mutation
As a glacier melts and retreats, a layer of bedrock is exposed. succession is term best describes the process that establishes a community on the bedrock
Some areas of the world are experiencing more desert-like conditions. This change most favors survival of species with the ability to become dormant for long periods
Many birds living in a certain coastal environment have a high-level concentration of pesticides in their bodies. The fish consumed by the birds are contaminated with pesticides is the most likely conclusion that can be made about the pesticides 
The main function of the circulatory system to human being is to transport materials
With climate and the transfer of energy as heat, three mechanisms that transfer energy between Earth's surface and the atmosphere are conduction, convection, radiation
A scientist searches for fossils in sedimentary rocks.  A mold can form when an organism is buried in sediment explains why the scientist is more likely to find fossils in sedimentary rocks than in other rock types
Sound travels as longitudinal waves is the best statement to describes the nature of sound
A gastroenterologist is a doctor who treats problems of the esophagus, stomach, and intestines. The organ system which is cared for by this type of doctor is digestive system
Many wildflowers growing on the floor of dense forests bloom in the early spring. The canopy trees have not developed their leaves so wildflowers get more light is the best reason why they bloom at this time
The total mass of available carbon remains constant in Earth's carbon cycle
When the core of a protostar has reached around 10 million K, the pressure within it is so immense that nuclear fusion of hydrogen begins and a star is born
A family owns a vacation cabin located on a hillside below a gas station with a leaking gasoline storage tank. Situation that the drinking water for the cabin most likely to be contaminated is groundwater is drawn up in buckets from a private well
A scientist working on a new package design wants to use a material that is highly recyclable, biodegradable, and inexpensive. The best material for the package design is cardboard
Inside cells, special molecules carry messages from the membrane to the nucleus. The body system uses a similar process is endocrine system
